First, Mr. Jenkins, would you tell us something
about your early life, including the names of your
parents, when and where they were born and when and
where they died, when you were born, and what
schools you attended before you went to Texas A&M?
My father, A.G. Jenkins, was born in Tennessee. He
came to Texas in 1855 and settled in Burleson
County, right across the river there from College
Station.
He was a veteran of the Civil War, Confederate
veteran. I can explain that. There's very few
people living now whose father was in the
Confederate Army, but he was. And the reason that I
explained that was, his first wife died and then he
married again and he married my mother who was 20
years younger. And then I was the youngest child of
his second family. When he got out, I like to tell
this about him, he was quite a pioneer. When he got
out of the service, he was captured at Siege of
Vicksburg. He was captured at Vicksburg and sent
to prison at Rock Island, Illinois. When he got
back to Burleson County, in 68, he and some other
former Confederate boys got a bunch of cattle,
two-year-old steers. Drove them to California
and sold them as four-year-old steers. Two years
on the range. a great man he was. My mother was born
there in Grosvenor. And I was born in Caldwell in
1895. Your mother's name was what now? Mary, Mary
King. Mary King. Mary King. And what about the
dates of your mother's birth? Yes, my mother was
born in, my father was born in I was 45, and my mother
was born in 65. And my father died in 1917, the year I
was a senior at A&M, and my mother died in 1922.
Were you born in Caldwell? In Caldwell. And you
went to the public schools there? That's right.
What factors were involved in your choice of A&M as
a college?
I was seeking an agricultural course, and that
close by, and was familiar with the school. I take
it you'd been there several times. Oh yes, been on
the Model T. We traveled to Baltimore on Friday. I
finished high school in 1913. And that would be the
football games that you went to?
Yeah. What procedures did you go through to be
admitted to the school? Did you have to take a test
of some sort? No, our high school was affiliated
with it. We didn't have to take any tests. You just
appeared there and enrolled. Did you have to apply
and be accepted as you do today? Yes, I guess so.
Yeah, we went over there two or three days before
the deadline. Well, what I'm getting at is today
kids apply for admission to the school months and
months before and then they get a letter saying
you've been accepted. No, we just went in there and
signed up. That was it. This may be a little bit
immaterial since you were somewhat familiar with
the campus, but what was your immediate reaction
when you were enrolled and settled into school at
A&M? Well, I was very proud of it. I was very much
impressed with the military. I think back in those
days, I think a student got as much or more benefit,
if I'll use the word correctly, from his military
as he did from his academic. The military back when
I was there, they were right on a par with West Point
in military training, military discipline. We
walked the post and mounted the guard every
morning. and it was supervised by West Point
officers and they really cracked the meat of West
Point out of it. You couldn't get out of your room at
night. You had to stay in your room and study. You
had to march to all the meals. You had to make
revelry. So you would say then the military kind of
taught you regularity in in a way that a civilian
school could not have done. Oh yes, I think the
military was, the strict military was a wonderful
thing. Any boy that could take it, a lot of them
would drop out like they do out of West Point now.
Would you say more of them dropped out because they
couldn't take the military than because they
couldn't pass the grades? No, I guess I wouldn't
know. Some of both. That's right. There wasn't too
many dropped out, but I do know that they resented
hazing, and some of them couldn't take the hazing,
and some of them didn't like the military,
different things. Could you describe, say, a
typical day during the years that you were there,
including the time you got up and the procedure for
getting up, the hours you spent in class, the time
you spent doing other things, such as drilling or
sports or something, and then the procedure of
going to bed? Reveille blew it around 6 o'clock in
the morning. One time it was dark. You had five
minutes to get your clothes on and get out in front
of the barracks and a Reveille call. Roll was
called. And we'd have calisthenics at Reveille.
For how long? Short time, maybe 15 minutes or less.
And then we'd go back up to our rooms and clean up our
rooms, police our rooms for inspection. And then
we would first call for breakfast. Maybe it's 45
minutes or something after we got up there. And we
went down and formed in formation again for
breakfast. And watched the breakfast. And while
we had breakfast, our rooms were inspected. You
had pretty much of an assigned seat at breakfast or
at all meals? Yes, we were in a company there. We'd
march in there as a company, and that company would
sit together in Speezer Hall.
Then after breakfast, why, those classes started
at 8. Did your companies reform after breakfast?
No. No, we didn't reform. As we got through eating,
we'd go back to dormitory, and then the first call
for classes, all this was done with a bugle. First
call to classes, if you had an eight o'clock class,
I'd report to class. Then you had four hours of
class in the morning, go back at noon, and then
the... By back, you mean to your dormitory? Back to
your dormitory. Then the... a mess call for noon
meal. And you formed a formation again and marched
into Springsville Hall. And after that, well,
you'd go back and then you'd have your laboratory
cases in the afternoon.
So then we drilled, we had drilled three times a
week. I'd say it was from about 4.30 to 5.30, I'd
tell on the drill field. And then we'd get back,
wash up, and
it wouldn't be long before it'd be the mess call for
supper. And then we'd formation again, march to
supper. After supper we had maybe an hour before
cold quarters. And then we went to our rooms. This
guard that was mounted in the morning, they'd
mount a guard every morning. A student with a
guard. Why, they would, for three hours there,
during study period at night, They kept, they'd
march around the barracks, around the hall, and
you were not disposed to go anywhere out of your
room except you could go from your room to the
latrine and back to your room. You couldn't visit
from one room to the other. And the guard was, if he
didn't enforce that, well then he was subject to
severe penalty, punishment. And they did for him,
they did support him. So then we had, after we, then
they'd blow a release at, I guess it was 10 o'clock.
And at 10.15 or 10.30, whichever it was, well then
they would sound taps. And after the sounding of
taps, all lights had to be out within five minutes,
with the exception of the seniors. Seniors could
burn their lights at midnight.
When did you find out whether or not your room
passed inspection for the day, or how did you find
out? You'd find it out that evening at the evening
meal. They read out what is known as a RAM list, and
they'd go right down the line of any RAMs while
they'd read them out, starting with A's, Abbott
so-and-so, improper dress, Maybe Abbott was room
not in order. And each one of those carried a
certain number of demerits. And so you would
always listen at the evening meal to see if your
name was on the ram list. If you got a certain number
of rams, you could get them off by walking the
bullpen with your rifle.
So many hours, so many rams, and so many hours to
take off. And you had to hold these rams down,
because if you got too many rams, you were
expelled. And the way to keep from getting
expelled was walk the bullring and get them off.
What was the food like in the mess hall? Did you have
many complaints about it? Oh, I guess not. The
table manners were bad. The hard part of the meal
was on Thursday night we always got steaks. That
was a big deal, Thursday night. And was it, did you
have a lot of variety or? The meal was all right. Old
man Speezer was a Spaniard. That hall was named
after him, Old Speezer. He was the
head, what do you call him, head of the- Stewart, I
believe. Stewart, I guess. Called for a long time.
And we didn't have
cadet waiters. He employed a bunch of Mexican
boys. He had Mexican waiters.
All four years I was there. I'm interested to hear
you say that, because I was about to ask you about
students, if there were any students who worked in
the mess hall as they have been for later on. Oh, I'm
sure, yes, I know they did. What was life like in the
dormitory where you lived? I know you said at night
they posted a guard, but what about during the day
if If students who were not in class, did they go
back to their dormitory rooms, or was everybody in
class from 8 till 12? Well, no, no. You'd have hours
off like you did in high school. Go wherever you
want to during the day if you weren't in class.
What kind of furniture did you have in your
dormitory? Oh, we had a table, two beds, two
chairs,
A lot of us, we'd always go down to the secondhand
store and buy us an old dresser. We wanted
something extra. I went to the secondhand store
and got me a dresser that I kept for four years. Left
it down there, I guess. Somebody else left it. What
dormitories did you live in? I was three years on
the top floor of Leggett Hall, which is still being
used, I understand. And then my senior year, I was
on the second floor of Milner Hall. I believe that
hall is still being used. Okay, did they, you said
something about earlier about having, being able
to get an excuse from during quiet time to go to the
latrine. Did you have one on every floor of the
dorms or did you have a separate building for that?
No, in Leggett Hall, Mildenhall, both there was a
central latrine. On each floor? Oh yeah.
What privileges did the upperclassmen have that
the freshmen didn't enjoy? The first year, the
freshmen could go to town on Saturday afternoon.
There was a car there that ran the town. And the
freshmen would go to town on Saturday afternoon,
but they had to be back in time for the evening meal
roll call. A sophomore could go to town two nights a
month. That would be in addition to Saturday
afternoon. Saturday afternoon. A sophomore
could go two nights a month. A junior could go four
nights a month. Saturday nights, not during the
week night, but he could go Saturday night. Every
night as a junior. And seniors go and come at will
whenever and wherever they wanted to. Seniors ran
that outfit, senior officers, the captain of your
company, lieutenants, and they ran the school.
They would. You had to get permission from them or
anything. What sort of things did the freshmen
have to do for the upperclassmen?
Well, of course, hazing was quite prevalent then,
and they had to run errands for them, and they had to
address them as mister, and that's why they got the
paddle pretty heavy. Of course, hazing was
against the rules, and if you caught hazing while
you were expelled, but somehow they never did
catch very many of them. Was that a permanent
expulsion or just a temporary one? No, they were
expelled from school for hazing. No, I was
wondering whether they were just expelled say for
the rest of the semester or whether they were
allowed to come back. I guess maybe they could come
back the next year probably if they'd come back and
apologize. I don't know, but I know that, oh there
was, I don't know how many were expelled a year,
maybe 10 or 15. I don't know. There were a lot more of
them than that did hazing, I take it. There's about
15 that didn't do hazing,
I think. Okay, you mentioned running errands.
Would this be going to the laundry? Well, they
delivered the laundry. No, you'd have to go down to
the drug store to get a cigar or just anything that a
sophomore wanted to do. Sophomores did most of the
hazing. And the juniors,
the sophomores, they're the ones that carried the
big battle. The juniors in Nazareth, they were
more mature. Of course, if they wanted anything,
they had the best fish to go do something for them.
And the seniors didn't do any hazing at all. But
nevertheless, they pretty well controlled
things. Oh, yes. He was a commissioned officer of
your company.
Did you, did
they still have wood stoves in the dorms? Did you
have to go get wood and things like that for them?
Did they have central heating? No, in Leggett Hall
and Millnau and all of this, it was central
heating. Central heating. Radiators. I guess
that still is.
Yeah, I see. Okay. What did the students do for
entertainment and recreation, like what they did
when they weren't in class? Well, they had the
intramural athletics. Did most of them
participate in that? No, I'd say they did. I don't
know what percentage. How was that arranged? Was
that on a company basis? Each company had the
athletic baseball team, or football team,
yes. There's about a hundred, or about
seventy-five in each company. And the football
team would be at least eleven. That's right. Well,
they'd play. I was in Company L and Company L would
play the other company
you wanted. So did you play for a regular
championship then among the various companies?
Oh yes. It was a competition to see who was the top
intramural
team. A lot of them would make good in the
intramural team. they would go down and get on the
varsity team. The coaches watched them.
Well, what about dances or things of that nature?
Well, the freshmen didn't go to any dances. But the
three of the class, they'd have dances.
And of course, the seniors were.
We had dances. Got all the girls from Brown. Many of
them bring the girls from their hometowns? Quite
often. Quite often. After you got up to be in that
class one time. The girl would be a guest or a friend
of yours, maybe a professor or somebody on the
campus. They'd let the girls stay with them while
they were doing the dance. Did the girls ever stay
in some of the dormitories? At one point I
understood that sometimes they would throw all
the boys out of one of the dormitories and put all
the girls up. My time, my time. Primarily they
stayed with faculty members. That's faculty
members. At that point I believe they all lived on
campus, didn't they? Or almost all of them anyway.
The campus? Yeah. The faculty? Faculty, yeah.
Okay. You mentioned that you could go down to Bryan
occasionally. For what purpose did people go down
to Bryan? Oh, go to the big show or just get away from
the campus
on Saturday afternoon. Go down there and play
pool. I believe I heard Mr. Langford say that one of
the reasons the school was located where it was, as
far away from Bryan as it was, was to get away from
the saloons in Bryan. Did any of the boys go down
there to partake of the... Bryan was dry. It was dry
at that time. Yeah, dry when I was there. They got
all the liquor down there across the river.
Burleson County, that's where it was. But I'll say
this. In four years there, I would say that I didn't
see
five, I don't know, but very, very few drunk
cadets. They didn't drink. They didn't keep
liquor in the rooms. I never saw a boy have liquor in
his room. Well, that was a pretty serious offense
for one thing, wasn't it? Oh, it was an expulsion,
absolutely.
They'd do some little drinking. Now every year,
they'd take the Corps to Dallas Fair. And we'd
parade down the street there in Dallas, go up on a
special train, early morning train, at the ball
game.
I've seen some boys that got a little liquored up at
Dallas, but might have probably stayed. No, but
back to what I was saying earlier, Mr. Lankford,
either he or somebody else said that in 76 when they
started the school, I think there were 12 saloons
in Bryan, and at that point I would imagine that
that would have been an unfortunate... Well, they
bought the dry after that, you see. Brazos County
was dry when I was... Wellesley County, of course,
the river was wet. Yeah. That was, I guess, just
since I'd been there, Brazos County. Well, they
sold beer, but they didn't have any liquor stores,
and they still had one just across the bridge going
out of College Station.
Did they also go to Bryan to shop, or could they buy
everything they needed on campus? Oh, you could
buy whatever you need down there. Cosmetics,
toothpaste, and et cetera. But they weren't any
good stores at the college station.
You weren't going to buy any clothes, extra
clothes. Of course, you had to wear a uniform all
the time, both on the campus and off the campus,
those gray uniforms. Where did you get those? They
issued them to you, except When you got to be an
upperclassman, there's an old tailor there named
Charlie Hulligan, and he would, as you got to be an
upperclassman, you wanted to be a little better
dressed instead of issue stuff. Well, Charlie
made most of the uniforms for the upperclassmen,
tailor-made. What would a full uniform have cost
you?
There
was a confectionery, I believe, in the basement of
the YMCA, was there not? Or did that come along
later? No, it came along later. There was a
confectionery down there, a little frame
building down there, where the trolley car
stopped, down there close to Speezer Hall. Was
there a station where the trolley car stopped? No,
no station. Was there a platform or anything to get
under when you waited for the train? No, you run
into the trucks and run into the perfection
yard. You mentioned earlier that the seniors
really sort of ran the Corps of Cadets, were there
any special privileges that they said the cadet
officers had? Say, could a junior cadet officer,
who was a higher ranking officer than, say, a
fellow junior, did he have any privileges?
You're a freshman of all privates, see. And the
sophomores who did good, did well, were the
corporals. And the juniors were the sergeants.
Not all juniors. I mean, the top juniors, they were
sergeants. And then the seniors were the
commissioned officers. That'd be for everything
from lieutenant on up. That's right. And then, of
course, they had the staff. They went on up to staff
officers, majors, lieutenant colonels, and
colonels. Yeah. OK. So then, basically, all
sophomores were in the same military rank. Yes.
and all juniors. And the seniors were the only ones
who had higher ranks. That's right. They were all
privates. And they had some senior privates that
didn't qualify to be commissioned officers. And
they were just, well, they didn't have anything to
do with But they were called senior privates. They
didn't have any formations to make. All they did
was sleep mean. Well, they didn't have to make
formations for breakfast? Not the senior
privates. No, they didn't have to make any. What
about drill? Did they have to do any drill at all?
No. Were there any students there, when you were
there, who were not in the Corps of Cadets. No. Even
the, you take the disabled boys,
they gave them, most of them were buglers, taught
them to blow the bugle. Each company had a bugler.
And the boy was disabled, couldn't participate in
his drill, his uniform, and his drills were They
would designate him as a bugler and took him out
there and showed him how to blow the bugle. And then
he would do all the signals then in the morning and
each meal? Well, they would designate one bugler
as the bugler of the week and had a big microphone, I
mean loudspeaker there that did bugle over. They
wouldn't all blow the bugle all the time. They'd
just have a bugle of the week or the bugle of the day.
They'd want to make just one man would do all that
bugling. Okay, I think I'm about out of space here.
Let me...